---
date: 2009-02-17
category: technical
readtime: true
---
A collegue at work has started a war.<br /><br />It started when he changed my name in my outlook address book to be spelt wrong. This really annoyed me, so I repeated the favour on his machine, except I put in an extra name into his address book (his middle name which he doesn't like).<br /><br />So then he changed my name in the bug-logging software so that everyone would see it. And then he logged into my work's webmail and sent emails to everyone that looked like they were coming from me. <br /><br />So I couldn't take all of this lying down.<br /><br />I then changed his computer so that when he entered google.com it actually took him to yahoo.com. Very annoying when you want to check gmail or search for anything.<br /><br />After changing the file on his computer I had to wait another 2 more days for him to reboot for the change to take effect. And then one day... all of a sudden.. I hear.. "hey, google's been hacked!"<br /><br />Queue incessant giggling from my corner of the office.<br /><br />So how did I do it?<br /><br />Well, you need to edit this file:<br /><br />	c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts<br /><br />I did a "ping www.yahoo.com", which gave me yahoo's IP address.<br /><br />Then I added the following two lines to his hosts file:<br /><br />209.131.36.158	www.google.com<br />209.131.36.158	www.google.com.au<br /><br />I first tried this on my machine, and it didn't work. I tried a "ipconfig /flushdns" but it still wasn't taking me to yahoo. <br /><br />However, if you try to go to gmail.google.com it brought up an error message, because firefox thought that the security certificate was coming from yahoo. So I figured that was enough of a problem for my collegue to deal with.<br /><br />The next thing that I needed to do was to edit that file on his machine. Fortunately we all have domain admin privileges, so I could just browse to his machine and edit the file. However, I couldn't remember the name of his machine. So I looked at an email that I got previously from him, and had a look at the header info. Buried in there somewhere was his machine name + ip. Bingo!<br /><br />